Today we are with Javier Pérez, who
is one of the students of The Power
MBA, and as I said before, he is
one of the students advantageous
because he is 26 years old, he is
an entrepreneur, in fact he has two
companies in operation, one of which
is the one we will analyze
today and another that has just
opened recently.
The main game is Football
Indoor Zaragoza.
We will do the following, first
we will quickly describe
the business model using the canvas
and then what we will do between
the two will be to do a little
analysis, an exercise of
identifying strengths,
weaknesses and some possible
evolution.
Javier, thank you very much for being
with us.
Nothing, you for the opportunity and
for inviting me.
If you tell us as quickly as
possible, what is Football
Indoor Zaragoza?
Because it is a covered football
facility, we have two covered
football fields 5 and what
we also have is a cafe, dressing
area and private parking.
and great.
What do you offer to each
customer?
Because mainly they are the most
masculine profile, children who
come to celebrate their birthday
and train in our techno academy.
And then we also have a group of
adults who come to play their
game, their pachanga, to train
with their team.
In addition, we have a club of companies
that have a presence there in the
installation and sponsor us with their
image, with their brand.
We have kids training in an academy,
adults renting the track to
play with their friends and
sports clubs.
Football clubs also come
to train one day a week.
And then finally you said you have
companies that are sponsors.
How are the income flows?
How do you earn money?
Mostly what is the day-to-
day, what are rentals and
the coffee box.
Then the quarterly quotas
of the techno academy, birthday
is more punctual income,
especially on weekends.
Companies pay for advertising
annually.
We have recurring income,
we have the quotas that
clubs and bonds pay, the
revenues of sponsors too,
the academy quotas and then
income say punctual.
Of sales of services are the
rental of the tracks and birthday
and also we add sales by
the coffee shop.
The sales of the coffee shop, what
percentage of the total?
You can make up 20% or
so.
What are the key resources you need?
The main thing is
that the facility is wellined
and cared for.
Sports equipment for ball,
pocket, sports equipment
for the training sessions of
the academy and then the
subject of the coffee shop suppliers.
Because it has 1750 square meters,
it is virtually a square of 40 per 40,
a little more, and the truth is
that it is very large inside, very wide.
Is it rented or you bought it?
It is currently rendered.
What are your main costs?
Because more or less 50%
are virtually the payments, 30%
more or less will be the rental
of the installation, the space
and 20% of other supplier costs,
fixed expenses such as light.
Well, well, I think we got
a very quick idea of the
business model.
What I am going to do now is
try to make a brief analysis of
things that have been emerging from me.
I think that with respect to strengths,
there is a strength that is that
you have many different customer
segments, children, adults,
clubs, companies, sponsors and
that reduces the risk because
you are more diverse.
It allows you to grow, one
day to decide to grow in
the most profitable segments,
etc.
That is very well.
In terms of income, more
of the same.
It's very diverse, you have quotas,
you have a punctual income, you have
a coffee shop and another point in
favor is that it's very recurrent.
Most of your business is very recurring.
I'm sure I ask you now, Javier,
how much will you earn in the
next six months?
You would say it with little
margin of error.
This is also true of costs,
so you have a business with
very stable cash flows, very
easy to evaluate.
What is very positive.
Another positive point, and we are
talking now about the key resources,
is the entry barrier you have
generated in Zaragoza.
Because you have already made the investment,
you have an installation that so
as we see in the photos is great.
And I don't think there's anyone who
is now thinking about investing in Zaragoza
in something like yours and competing
with you.
You have a very safe business.
The truth is that yes.
This type of facilities depend
mainly on urbanism and we
are located seven kilometers
south of Zaragoza, in
Cuarte de Huerva.
It is a road facade ship.
And the truth that as far as
reference at the national
level we have always been referents
that other facilities of this
mode that have wanted to open
have fixed on us.
So as we said, it's very unlikely
that someone who is you will
venture to compete.
And from the point of view of the weaknesses,
to see how you perceive
it, I think there are several.
One, which is related to the
customer segment and key
resources.
The main target market
is Zaragoza.
In principle yes.
It is Zaragoza.
That, well, because you will tell me that
clearly, it is that it has to be so
already, but it is true that it is a weakness.
And look, I come to the head a project
in which I participated as a strategic
consultant several years ago, of
a business more or less similar to
yours, that was the Academy of Tennis
of Sánchez Casal, which is Emilio
Sánchez Dicario and Casal,
who was his companion
when they played.
And they turned a business, say,
in principle local, like a tennis
academy, into an international
college.
And they went from billing, like
the rest of the Academies, 300,
000 euros, to billing many millions
of euros.
Every child paid 60,000 euros or something,
I don't know.
They were able, in this case,
to, despite relying on a resource
that limited them to a very
close customer segment,
expand their target market.
And the other weakness is a bit
related, is that the key resource,
which is the installation, depend
a lot on an installation, because
it limits your growth.
You are not scalable, because
if you want to grow in, I
don't know, in Pamplona, you have
to re-invest in Pamplona, etc.
So tell us a little about how
you are, because of course, everyone
has growth in their head.
How did you put this into
question?
Man, we have even come to think
of opening a center of these
in another city, especially in
northern Spain, which is not much.
And, well, the other option
is to expand the installation
in the spaces around ships that
are available.
Well, always taking advantage of some
opportunity and being able to open,
then, even another football field
or two paddle tracks to complement
the installation a little more.
Yes, but by what you say, your
growth approach is always matched
by a greater investment, which
in principle I imagine is
to reform the space,
right?
And above all, of course.
In principle, as a business model,
it is a very local business, it does
not cease to be a space, a establishment.
And, well, because that is a limiting
to the time of being able to
scale this business.
A limit, you said well.
Well, this happens in a lot
of, in all business models, that
you depend on a specific
location, that really
your competitive advantage
is that.
Your competitive advantage
is the resource you have.
And, well, look, already to finish,
I will comment on some case of people
who have been able to innovate as
regards this.
And one, you already know it,
because Richie, the CEO of Vintae,
who we analyzed the case a few
classes ago, he that he surpassed,
let's say, is in the cave
sector, as he told us, people,
cellars when they grow, let's say
they acquire the real estate,
the cellar in property,
right?
And they have made it to establish
strategic alliances with cellars,
with many cellars across
Spain.
It has allowed them to grow much
more than their competition.
Or, for example, I think of
sectors also of local business,
such as hairdressers or gyms,
which have emerged platforms
like Bookme or Jim Forless
or whatever connect customers
with this type of business.
So these people have grown without
having to invest in the resource.
It's true that it's another business,
it's another business, but well,
it's just ideas that come up to me.
Do you think there is a possibility
of this type?
Man, breaking out this business
model is complicated.
Usually in each city they usually
ride it their own way because
they are the ones who know
it best.
And well, because, as well
as ideas, I think, we handle
mostly a platform, a
reservation system, develop
something more specific for
this type of facilities at
the national, international
level or whatever could be a
good way because after all
these facilities require
and need those reservation
systems to manage that
space and those services.
I think someone has advanced
you because there is another
of our collaborators you'll know
who is launching a very fat
company with something similar.
We need to see if it is competitive
or not.
Effectively what you said, I don't
know, likewise it's possible that
you franchise because there are a
lot of people who probably have
ships or spaces of these missed across
Spain, but they't go to mount
something like yours because
they don't have any idea or
how to start.
If you give it key in hand, you
may give the solution to many
people who have the property.
That you want to exploit that space
in some way, so it's safe
and profitable.
What would happen is that over time
it would depend very little on you
and you would have a problem in
that sense, but I'm convinced that
by launching it you could help.
There are thousands of people in
Spain who have ships, similar to
those you are, but without
conditioning, that would be willing.
If any of the students
have any ideas to evolve
this business model, I
imagine it will be very
welcome.
And if you, Javier, do some of
it too, I would thank you for telling
us so that it will be enriching
for everyone.
of course.
Nothing but to congratulate
you once again for the business
you have and thank you for
sharing it with us.
for you the opportunity.
Thank you very much, Javier.
Until then.